README.md, before:

This project is being deprecated in favor of [https://github.com/ruby-av/paperclip-av-transcoder](https://github.com/ruby-av/paperclip-av-transcoder)

Paperclip FFMPEG
================
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg)

Adding video handling to Paperclip via ffmpeg.
This gem has been tested under Linux and Mac OS X, YMMV under Windows.

Requirements
------------

FFMPEG or AVCONV must be installed and Paperclip must have access to it. To ensure
that it does, on your command line, run `which ffmpeg`.
This will give you the path where ffmpeg is installed. For
example, it might return `/usr/local/bin/ffmpeg`.

Then, in your environment config file, let Paperclip know to look there by adding that
directory to its path.

In development mode, you might add this line to `config/environments/development.rb)`:

```ruby
Paperclip.options[:command_path] = "/usr/local/bin/"
```

Installation
------------

Include the gem in your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "paperclip-ffmpeg"
```

Quick Start
-----------

In your model:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_attached_file :avatar, :styles => {
    :medium => { :geometry => "640x480", :format => 'flv' },
    :thumb => { :geometry => "100x100#", :format => 'jpg', :time => 10 }
  }, :processors => [:ffmpeg]
end
```

This will produce:

1. A transcoded `:medium` FLV file with the requested dimensions if they will match the aspect ratio of the original file, otherwise, width will be maintained and height will be recalculated to keep the original aspect ration.
2. A screenshot `:thumb` with the requested dimensions regardless of the aspect ratio.

You may optionally add `<attachment>_meta` to your model and paperclip-ffmpeg will add information about the processed video.

You may optionally add `auto_rotate: true` to automatically straighten videos recoreded in a non-landscape mode.

Streaming Video
-------------------

When ffmpeg produces mp4 files, it places the moov atom at the end which makes it unstreamable. To handle this, paperclip-ffmpeg includes a processor to run qtfaststart after producing the video file.

In your model:

```ruby
class Lesson < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_attached_file :video, :styles => {
    :mobile => {:geometry => "400x300", :format => 'mp4', :streaming => true}
  }, :processors => [:ffmpeg, :qtfaststart]
end
```

See [danielgtaylor/qtfaststart](https://github.com/danielgtaylor/qtfaststart) for instructions on how to setup qtfaststart.

FFmpeg Options
-------------------

ffmpeg accepts a variety of options for video and audio like (-ac, -vn). To handle this, paperclip-ffmpeg accepts any options and passes them directly to the ffmpeg command via `convert_options` hash which includes the `input` and `output` options

```ruby
class Lesson < ActiveRecord::Base
	has_attached_file :media, :styles => {
    :medium => { :geometry => "640x480", :format => 'flv', :convert_options => {:output => {:ar => 44100}} },
    :large => { :geometry => "1024x576", :format => 'flv', :convert_options => {:output => {:ar => 44100}} },
  }, :processors => [:ffmpeg]
end
```

Contribution
-------
Kudos goes to [all contributors](https://github.com/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg/graphs/contributors) for their amazing work.

If you'd like to contribute a feature or bugfix: Thanks! To make sure your
fix/feature has a high chance of being included, please read the following
guidelines:

1. Post a new GitHub Issue[http://github.com/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg/issues].
2. Make sure there are tests! We will not accept any patch that is not tested.
   It's a rare time when explicit tests aren't needed.


License
-------

Licensed under MIT license.

Commit message:

Adding Exiftool and new auto_rotate to Readme.md

README.md, after:

This project is being deprecated in favor of [https://github.com/ruby-av/paperclip-av-transcoder](https://github.com/ruby-av/paperclip-av-transcoder)

Paperclip FFMPEG
================
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg)

Adding video handling to Paperclip via ffmpeg.
This gem has been tested under Linux and Mac OS X, YMMV under Windows.

Requirements
------------

FFMPEG or AVCONV must be installed and Paperclip must have access to it. To ensure
that it does, on your command line, run `which ffmpeg`.
This will give you the path where ffmpeg is installed. For
example, it might return `/usr/local/bin/ffmpeg`.

Then, in your environment config file, let Paperclip know to look there by adding that
directory to its path.

In development mode, you might add this line to `config/environments/development.rb)`:

```ruby
Paperclip.options[:command_path] = "/usr/local/bin/"
```

Installation
------------

Include the gem in your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "paperclip-ffmpeg"
```

Quick Start
-----------

In your model:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_attached_file :avatar, :styles => {
    :medium => { :geometry => "640x480", :format => 'flv' },
    :thumb => { :geometry => "100x100#", :format => 'jpg', :time => 10 }
  }, :processors => [:ffmpeg]
end
```

This will produce:

1. A transcoded `:medium` FLV file with the requested dimensions if they will match the aspect ratio of the original file, otherwise, width will be maintained and height will be recalculated to keep the original aspect ration.
2. A screenshot `:thumb` with the requested dimensions regardless of the aspect ratio.

You may optionally add `<attachment>_meta` to your model and paperclip-ffmpeg will add information about the processed video.  You may optionally add `use_exiftool: true` to extract all of the metadata from the videos and store it in the meta hash. If using PostgreSQL, enable hstore in one migration, then add an hstore column for this data.

You may optionally add `auto_rotate: 'portrait'` or `auto_rotate: 'landscape'` to automatically rotate videos to result in portrait or landscape.

Streaming Video
-------------------

When ffmpeg produces mp4 files, it places the moov atom at the end which makes it unstreamable. To handle this, paperclip-ffmpeg includes a processor to run qtfaststart after producing the video file.

In your model:

```ruby
class Lesson < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_attached_file :video, :styles => {
    :mobile => {:geometry => "400x300", :format => 'mp4', :streaming => true}
  }, :processors => [:ffmpeg, :qtfaststart]
end
```

See [danielgtaylor/qtfaststart](https://github.com/danielgtaylor/qtfaststart) for instructions on how to setup qtfaststart.

FFmpeg Options
-------------------

ffmpeg accepts a variety of options for video and audio like (-ac, -vn). To handle this, paperclip-ffmpeg accepts any options and passes them directly to the ffmpeg command via `convert_options` hash which includes the `input` and `output` options

```ruby
class Lesson < ActiveRecord::Base
	has_attached_file :media, :styles => {
    :medium => { :geometry => "640x480", :format => 'flv', :convert_options => {:output => {:ar => 44100}} },
    :large => { :geometry => "1024x576", :format => 'flv', :convert_options => {:output => {:ar => 44100}} },
  }, :processors => [:ffmpeg]
end
```

Contribution
-------
Kudos goes to [all contributors](https://github.com/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg/graphs/contributors) for their amazing work.

If you'd like to contribute a feature or bugfix: Thanks! To make sure your
fix/feature has a high chance of being included, please read the following
guidelines:

1. Post a new GitHub Issue[http://github.com/owahab/paperclip-ffmpeg/issues].
2. Make sure there are tests! We will not accept any patch that is not tested.
   It's a rare time when explicit tests aren't needed.


License
-------

Licensed under MIT license.
